Now we'll get into redux except we'll focus on redux alone no react in this section.
So our objectives are to define what redux is.
Describe actions that reducers and redux and to describe methods on the relaxed or so redux is a popular
state management library and it's created by Dan Avonmouth and Andrew Clark.
It's inspired by Facebook flux and Elm flux is an architecture that Facebook came up with the help solve
the problem of how to manage large applications and Elm a functional programming language not written
by Facebook redux models the application state as a single javascript object which means there's only
one place where all your data and application is stored.
If you put all of your state in redux and the last point about redux is that it's often used with react
but it's a completely independent library so you could use redox with angular MBR.
Any other library you choose.
But it pairs very nicely with re-act
sort of Insol redux.
It's as simple as NPM install dash to save redux.
Now this talk about the first important concept in redux an action so an action is just a plain javascript
object but it must have a key named type and that type value should be a string that represents some
action that you want to take in the application.
Now you can have more than just the type so you can have key is like an ID.
If this is a delete action you can use the ID to help identify which piece of state you want to delete
but the type at the minimum is what you need in order for it to be a valid action.
Once you've created actions the next step is to create a reducer introducer essentially decides what
new state to return given the old state and the current action.
So in the example below assume we have some state with a key called logon that decides whether or not
the user is logged in.
So our old state is one parameter and the action that is currently being dispatched is our second.
Now we'll switch on that action that type and remember type is the required key and if the action type
is log out user then we'll change the state for the log in to be false.
But if the action type is log in user then we'll change the state for the log in to be true.
If this producer doesn't know what to do with the action then it's always a good idea just to return
the state as is.
So after actions and reducers the last important concept is a store and the store is just one big javascript
object that represents our state and the entire application.
There is a redux method you can use to create a store and the create store method takes your main reducer
for the whole application.
That main reducer is often called the root producer so far we have an action which is dispatched to
cause a change in the state reducer which decides what those state changes should be when an action
gets dispatched.
And then a store which contains our actual javascript object of keys and values for the state of our
application.
If you want to change the state like I mentioned you want to dispatch an action from the store.
This dispatch function will dispatch an action and the type is log in user and because we pass the route
reducer as a parameter to the store the reducer that you saw earlier will handle this action and change
the state of log in to be true.
You can also get the state of the store at any time by calling store that get state.
So in this example after we dispatched the log in action we can get the new state by calling store that
gets state and we'll have the new state of our entire application.
It's important to notice here too that redux is synchronous.
So unlike said state in re-act which may take some time to change the applications view store that dispatch
is synchronous.
So as soon as that function runs and it's finished you know that the state has been updated to the new
state.
The store also allows for listening for changes.
So you can add a callback function like the one seen here the change callback and then call store door
listen and pass in that callback.
So any time a state change happens in the entire store this function will get invoked and then you can
call store that gets data from within that function to figure out what the current state is.
In this example we're just logging it using cancel that log if you ever want to cancel that change callback.
You'll get a function as a return from the listener function and this unsubscribe function is what you
would invoke to unsubscribe.
So if you remember back to set timeout or set interval we got an ID that we use to cancel the time out
or the set interval.
But here we have a function that we use.
So whenever we want to stop that callback from happening we just invoke the unsubscribe function.
Let's review the data flow and relax step by step assuming we have a store set up with some state.
The first thing that will happen to affect the state is that an action will be dispatched.
Now remember that action always has a type.
Once the action is dispatched the reducer gets invoked in the first parameter the reducer is the current
state wherever the store currently has.
The second parameter is the action was just dispatched including the type.
Now based on that type and whatever the state currently is the reducer returns a new state object and
then after we get that new state the store invokes all the listeners which tells any listeners that
the store has been updated.
So we've just covered the majority of the redux library.
Next up we'll look at how to integrate it into re-act.